---
layout: post
title: Coming to live in China, trash your cloud services and get yourself a NAS!
date: 2025-09-04 00:00:00
description: When coming to live in China, you won't be able to rely anymore on many Western services that were maybe essential to your workflow and daily life. That's the perfect opportunity to take back some of your data under your control by self-hosting!
categories: china-life
tags: china self-hosting cloud
thumbnail: assets/img/blog/get-nas.jpeg
---

<style>body {text-align: justify}</style>

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="/assets/img/blog/get-nas.jpeg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

When coming to live in China, you won’t be able to rely anymore on many Western
services that were maybe essential to your workflow and daily life. It likely
includes your cloud storage, streaming services, or even your emails and
calendars. Services like **Google, Dropbox, Proton Mail, Spotify, or Netflix are
banned** and not (easily) accessible. Equivalent available Chinese services 
exist, but are targeted to the Chinese market and often fully in Chinese. Yet,
from this challenge, you are given the opportunity to take back the ownership 
of your data by self-hosting some of those services in a NAS. 

In this post, 
I’ll show you how you can **set up your own cloud storage** in your new Chinese 
home with a NAS, and access it (securely) from anywhere in China as you would 
with Google Drive or Dropbox. 

This post is targeted for people who are not 
already self-hosting enthusiasts, and with limited knowledge on the topic, but
who need the comfort of a good and secure cloud storage without the hassle of 
spending hours installing and maintaining it. Note also that the solutions I am 
describing are not the most cost-effective, but the most **plug-and-play and
maintenance-free**. With a little more knowledge and time involvement, one could 
build a system delivering the same services and more at a fraction of the
price. I may cover in a follow-up blog post some more advanced setups.

Note that I will reference commercial products and services. I 
emphasize that I am not sponsored by any of them and I have not tried nor am 
I aware of all the different competing products.


## Cloud services

Depending on your use cases and needs, cloud services might still be the way to
go. Let's list the pros and cons:

  - :white_check_mark: **Competitive cost** for low amount of storage (< 1TB).
  - :x: BUT cost **increases rapidly if storage needs are heavier**.
  - :white_check_mark: Big cloud storage companies employ the **best backup and
  data replication 
    practices**. Your important data is not gonna disappear into oblivion.
  - :x: BUT they technically have access to anything you put on their servers,
  and have demonstrated in the past to **disregard your privacy** and use your
  data for commercial purposes and other activities...
  - :white_check_mark: **Speed of data transfer is constant** and reasonable, 
  whether you're at home or on the go.
  - :x: BUT don't expect to be able to stream 4K movies from anywhere...
  - :x: **Limited choices** of cloud storage services in China. Most Western 
  services are unavailable.

Let's now consider two popular solutions for cloud storage services that you 
may consider in China.

### Apple a safe haven (for now)
{:data-toc-text="Apple a safe haven"}

If you already rely on <a href="https://www.icloud.com/">Apple iCloud</a> for 
your cloud storage, and this is all you
need, the good news is that it will still work relatively flawlessly in China. 
On the other hand, if you were contemplating the idea of switching to Apple 
products, it might be a good moment to do it. Obviously, one major downside is
that you will be trapped in their ecosystem and miss the opportunity to learn 
how to self-host your data. Additionally, while prices are affordable for 
limited storage requirements, they can quickly go up to the roof if you need to
store a few TBytes.

 

### The mastodon Baidu cloud

I cannot not mention the <a href="https://pan.baidu.com/">Baidu Cloud</a> 
service that many Chinese citizens rely
on. I have not tried it myself, but I know that the prices are very affordable. 
However, the apps are entirely in Chinese with no possibility to switch to 
English. While it can be a great way to commit yourself to learn Chinese, it
may also be an inconvenience you'd prefer to avoid.

## The way of the selfhoster

While you might feel mortified by the impossibility to rely on your favourite
cloud storage service, this is not the time to lose hope yet. There is a way out: the 
way of the self-hoster :boom: :exclamation: :astonished: :question: :boom: 

<h5 style="text-align: center;"> <em> What is self-hosting? </em> </h5>

Self-hosting consists in **running and managing your 
own digital applications and services on your own hardware and infrastructure**.
For instance, your NAS securely located in your home/apartment :wink: The 
infrastructure that runs your services, ranging from your network, IoT, 
computing hardware, and software, is called your **homelab**. Arguably, your 
future NAS is already a tiny homelab, and you, therefore, will be a self-hoster. 

If you are new to self-hosting, you may be astonished by the range of services
and digital tools available to you freely, and that have been crafted with love
by passionate enthusiasts. I, myself, feel a mix of admiration, gratitude, and
confusion towards these talented individuals pouring their free time into 
software development that barely makes them any money, and whose sole
recognition is an endless flow of feature requests and a few GitHub stars. 
<!-- If  -->
<!-- we were to attempt the exercise of translating the amount of time spent on -->
<!-- developing all these freely available and maintained services into coffee, this -->
<!-- would amount to a cup the size of an ocean. -->

To give you an idea of the range of things you can do, you could host your own
Google Docs suite, Google Photos, orchestrate home automations, organize and 
share your ebooks, recipes, home finance, run your own private Netflix, and so 
much more. If you fall into the rabbit hole of self-hosting, the
possibilities are almost endless! But we are not going on this adventure today.
Perhaps, we will dive further into this topic in a follow-up blog post.

## Make yourself a favor, get a NAS!
{:data-toc-text="What is a NAS?"}

This post is all about converting fellow expats to use NAS solutions
to replace their cloud storage in China. 
<h5 style="text-align: center;"> <em> But what exactly is a NAS? </em> </h5>

NAS stands for Network-Attached Storage, and is essentially a **dedicated 
computer that you use as a centralized storage for your files** and backups. It
is generally designed as a low-power machine running 24/7 with a set of 
built-in Drive Bays in which you insert your storage devices (hard disk drives and solid-state drives). NAS
units, and the files they contain, are made to be **accessible to all your 
devices at any time**. You can, of course, invite your family members to enjoy
the benefits of your NAS with their own devices.

The major NAS brands generally offer seamless integration with your computers, 
tablets, and smartphones, for offloading your files into the NAS and having 
them available across devices. Of course, those brands often go beyond just 
offering a "file storage" solution. Their software comes with **many other 
services**, such as calendars, media servers, or backup managers.

Here is a list of accessible major NAS brands in China:

  - **[Synology](https://www.synology.com)** is arguably the biggest name in the 
  NAS market! They offer the most comprehensive, secure, and beginner-friendly 
  software. Yet, I must point out that Synology has been under a few 
  controversies in recent years. The latest being enforcing the use of their
  brand-name hard drives as storage devices for their NAS. They have also been
  criticized for the disappointing hardware specs of their recent products 
  compared with the competition. Despite these issues, if you are a total 
  beginner looking for a plug-and-play/easy solution, I think Synology still 
  has the edge.
  - **[QNAP](https://www.qnap.com/)** is a brand that has been on the NAS market 
  for a while, and is the historical alternative to Synology. QNAP also had its 
  own set of controversies. The biggest so far being a massive security breach 
  a few years ago. However, if you do not intend to expose your NAS on the 
  internet, I would not worry too much. Their products have less neat software
  but better hardware than Synology.
  - **[Ugreen](https://nas.ugreen.com/)** is a long-standing brand in electronic
  devices, but relatively new to the NAS market. As this is a reputable Chinese
  brand, you won't have any problem finding and buying their products in
  mainland China.
  - **Do-It-Yourself** (DIY) NAS! A NAS is simply a computer with a load of storage
  and a specialized operating system. Building your NAS from an old computer 
  for instance would probably be the most cost-effective solution. However, 
  this is not the solution I would recommend for a beginner that wants a quick 
  and flawless install.


## Where do I get a NAS in China?
{:data-toc-text="Where do I get a NAS?"}

Now that you are convinced that you absolutely need a NAS, you're left with the
devouring question:

<h5 style="text-align: center;"> <em> How do I get one of those devices in China? </em> </h5>

To an extent, NAS are relatively "niche" products in the realm of general 
consumption. Thus, you will probably have a hard time finding physical 
boutiques or resellers in your local Chinese town. The best is certainly to 
order it online. You will find all the previously cited brands on 
**[Jing Dong](https://www.jd.com/)** or **[Tian Mao](https://www.tmall.com/)** for 
instance; they are some of the biggest **shopping internet platforms** in mainland
China. If you are not a veteran of Chinese online 
shopping and do not read Mandarin, I strongly advise not to buy from a reseller, but from the official NAS brand stores
on these shopping platforms. 

Note that the NAS enclosure and the storage devices are generally sold 
separately. For instance, if you buy a recent Synology NAS model, you will also
need to buy a couple of Synology drives. If you buy your NAS from another 
brand, you have a wider choice of drives you may use. However,
you should pay attention to pick NAS-friendly ones that are optimized and 
engineered to work in tandem with your NAS enclosure. Here are a few classic safe 
choices:

  - [Seagate](https://www.seagate.com/) IronWolf hard drives.
  - [Western Digital](https://www.westerndigital.com/) Red hard drives.
  - [Toshiba](https://www.toshiba.com) N300 hard drives.

## Access your files out of your home
{:data-toc-text="Access your files"}

As for standard cloud services, you may need to **synchronize the files on your
devices to 
your NAS from anywhere**. Let's assume your NAS is safely running from the 
comfort of your home. When your devices are also at home, on your home network,
this is a piece of cake. Setting everything up is straightforward and 
uncomplicated. However, once you are outside your home, things can get tricky,
and this is to be expected. Indeed, by default, your home network does not let
outside devices in, and we want to keep it that way! However, it means that 
your computer at work cannot communicate directly with your NAS, which is
safely hidden on your private home network.

<h5 style="text-align: center;"> <em> But then, can you still access your NAS from outside? </em> </h5>

The short answer is yes. There are plenty of solutions, each with varying levels of trickiness, security risks, and technical knowledge required from the NAS owner. You should also be aware that most solutions involve exposing your NAS to the outside world in some way. While my goal is not to feed your paranoia, you should keep in mind that it always comes with risks.

That being said, let's review some of these solutions:

  - Perhaps, the most adapted solution to beginners is the 
  **[QuickConnect](https://kb.synology.com/en-global/DSM/help/DSM/Tutorial/cloud_set_up_quickconnect?version=6)**
  service from Synology. This is easy to set up and "decently" secure. The video 
  of [SpaceRex](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s9YguJ1SsTM) provides you with 
  a good summary of important security practices when using Quickconnect. Other
  NAS constructors have similar services. However, they may not have the same 
  track record regarding security, so use it at your own risk.
  - I may also mention **[Cloudflare Tunnel](https://developers.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/)** and **[Tailscale](https://tailscale.com/)**, which are both popular and secure approaches to accessing your services at home. However, while not particularly impractical for novices, these solutions will definitely require a bit of learning.
  - Lastly, a very common solution consists of installing a **VPN server** in
  your home network to establish a secure, encrypted connection between your 
  devices and your home. However, this solution **may not be easily 
  achievable** for someone freshly arriving in China. It requires opening a 
  port on your router, which is not an option accessible out of the box with
  certain (most?) Chinese ISP. You would need to contact your ISP and ask if
  opening a port is possible. You will need to explain your situation and 
  request in Mandarin. Ultimately, your ISP will have the final say and may 
  refuse.



## Data redundancy and backups
{:data-toc-text="Data backups"}

Owning your data also means that it is your responsibility to guarantee its
security and integrity. It is all the more important if your NAS hosts some of
your and your family's most important files. To hedge your system against 
catastrophic data loss, you should use two main classes of tools: **data 
redundancy** and **backup**.

As with any electronic device, your NAS enclosure and its drives will wear out
over time. Don't get me wrong, they will probably have an honorable life, but 
death comes after all of us, even your NAS... To be more specific, if your NAS
runs long enough, you *will* face drive failures. In a dummy configuration,
when a drive fails overnight, all the data it contains would be gone and 
unrecoverable. Fortunately, this is not how a NAS works. To protect your data,
your **NAS can employ various redundancy systems and technologies for fault 
tolerance**. Depending on your NAS, you may have access to RAID (0, 1, 5, 6, 
10), SHR, or Unraid single/dual parity. All of this can appear to be a little
technical, so if you are a beginner, I would simply recommend using the default
configuration proposed during the initialization of your NAS. However, you 
should understand that to make your system tolerant to drive failures, one or
more of your drives will be dedicated to redundancy. Meaning that if you buy four 4TB hard drives, and 
want a system tolerant to a one-drive failure, one of these four drives must be
dedicated to data redundancy. Therefore, with four 4TB hard drives, the
effective storage capacity of your NAS will be 12TB instead of 16TB.

However, data redundancy does not protect you against accidental file deletion,
data corruption, malware, or complete system destruction (e.g., fire, flood, or
theft). This is why you need to protect your critical files with backups. 
Backups are point-in-time snapshots of your data that you may use to recover 
the state of your files and system configurations at a given time in the past. For
the most important data that you cannot afford to lose, you should employ the
so-called **3-2-1 backup strategy**. It consists of keeping three different 
copies of this data on devices of different natures and locations. For instance, one copy on
your computer, one copy on your NAS, and one copy on an external drive at your
office, on a friend's NAS, or on the cloud. Most NAS systems offer built-in 
backup software that can periodically copy and save your data at the location 
of your choosing; it significantly eases good backup practices.


## Little recap and going further

Let's have a little recap of the pros and cons of NAS devices in China:

  - :x: An initial **substantial investment** to buy the NAS enclosure and storage devices.
  - :white_check_mark: BUT an investment that will **quickly become cost-effective** for high storage requirements.
  - :white_check_mark: The **fastest way to access your data** when at home.
  - :x: BUT accessing your data securely from outside requires a little bit of research and a few tweaks.
  - :white_check_mark: **High level of privacy**. Nobody else owns your data!
  - :x: Owning your data means that **you are responsible for implementing the best data security and integrity practices**. It will require time and learning.
  - :white_check_mark: Many of the **most well-known NAS brands are available in China**. You won't have issues purchasing your device.

The objective of this blog is to provide you with a general understanding of what a NAS is and why you may want to have one when living in China. If you wish to take the leap, you can find further guidance on the installation and setup process from the YouTube channels:
  - [SpaceRex](https://www.youtube.com/@SpaceRexWill)
  - [NASCompares](https://www.youtube.com/@nascompares)
